# A Guided Tour of Emacs

[online reading](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/tour/index.html)

Some users find that they can do almost all of their work from within Emacs.

- `M-x gdb` debug with GDB
- `M-x ediff` compare file content
- `M-x dired` file manager
- `M-x gnus` read news, mail, and RSS feeds

## Why Emacs?

All of the basic editing commands are universal. So you can be more productive.

You can use Emacs Lisp to extend Emacs.

## Before we get started

Take the Emacs tutorial, `C-h t`.

See (info "(emacs)Using Region"), `M-:`, then type `(info "(emacs)Using Region")` followed by RET.

> It is actually evaluating a elisp expression.

Read Emacs Manual, `C-h r`.

## The power of text manipulation

`M-x dired` invokes *Dired*, the file manager mode. Then `C-x C-q` (or `M-x wdired-change-to-wdired-mode`) switches to *Editable Dired* mode.

In this mode, you can rename file, or batch rename files, just like edit normal file.

## Basic editing commands

- `M-f` Forward one word
- `M-b` Back one word
- `M-a` Previous sentence
- `M-e` Next sentence
- `M-v` Previous screen
- `C-v` Next screen
- `M-<` Beginning of buffer
- `M->` End of Buffer
- `M-g g` Jump to specified line
- `C-s` incremental search forward
- `C-r` incremental search backward

Mark, a previous cursor position.

- `C-SPC` set mark to the current location
- `C-x C-x` swap point and mark
- `C-u C-SPC` cycle through mark ring

> On macOS, `C-SPC` is used for switching input method. So which is the keystroke to mark current location?

region

- `C-x h` select all
- `M-h` make region contain the current paragraph

*Narrowing* restricts the view (and editing) of a buffer to a certain region.

- `C-x n n` narrow buffer to the current region
- `C-x n w` restore ("widen") buffer

killing ("cutting") text

- `C-k` kill line
- `C-u 10 C-k` kill 10 lines10
- `C-w` kill region ("cut")
- `M-w` save region to kill ring without deleting ("copy")

To Be Continued