# Emacs Tutorial

[Master Emacs in one year](https://github.com/redguardtoo/mastering-emacs-in-one-year-guide/blob/master/guide-en.org), by *Chen Bin*

Run `emacs -nw -Q` with minimal setup, press `M-x help-with-tutorial`.

> This tutorial takes half an hour. Not too much for a life time skill.

The commands are as followed:

1. `C-x C-c` end emacs session
2. `C-g` quit a partially entered command
3. `C-x k` kill buffer
4. `C-v` view next screen
5. `M-v` view previous screen
6. `C-l` run the command `recenter-top-bottom`
7. `C-p` previous line
8. `C-n` next line
9. `C-f` forward a character
10. `C-b` backward a character
11. `M-f` forward a word
12. `M-b` backward a word
13. `C-a` move to the beginning of a line
14. `C-e` move to the end of a line
15. `M-a` move to the beginning of a sentence
16. `M-e` move to the end of a sentence
17. `M-<` move to the beginning of the whole text
18. `M->` move to the end of the whole text
19. `C-u 8 C-f` move forward 8 characters
20. `C-x 1` kill other windows
21. `C-h k` describe key
22. `C-u 8 *` insert 8 `*` character
23. `C-d` delete the next character after the cursor
24. `M-<DEL>` kill the word immediately before the cursor
25. `M-d` kill the next word after the cursor
26. `C-k` kill from the cursor position to end of line
27. `M-k` kill to the end of the current sentence
28. `C-@`, `C-SPC` set mark
29. `C-h f` describe function
30. `C-w` kill text between point and mark
31. `C-y` yank
32. `M-y` yank pop
33. `C-/`, `C-_`, `C-x u` undo
34. `C-x C-f` find a file
35. `C-x C-s` save the file
36. `C-x C-b` list buffers
37. `C-x b` switch to buffer
38. `C-x s` save some buffers
39. `C-x` character extend, followed by one character
40. `M-x` named command extend, followed by a long name
41. `C-z` exit Emacs temporarily
42. `fg` or `%emacs` to resume Emacs session
43. `M-x replace-string` replace string
44. `M-x recover-this-file` recover this file
45. `M-x fundamental-mode` switch to fundamental
46. `M-x text-mode` switch to text mode
47. `C-h m` view documentation on your current major mode
48. `M-x auto-fill-mode` toggles Auto Fill minor mode
49. `C-x f` set fill column
50. `M-q` fill paragraph at or after point
51. `C-s` incremental search forward
52. `C-r` incremental search backward
53. `C-x 2` split window below
54. `<Esc> C-v` scroll other  window
55. `C-x o` other window
56. `C-x 4 C-f` find file other window
57. `C-x 5 2` make frame command
58. `C-x 5 0` remove the selected frame
59. `ESC ESC ESC` keyboard escape quit
60. `C-h` the Help character
61. `C-h c` describe key briefly
62. `C-h v` describe variable
63. `C-h a` apropos command
64. `C-h i` read included manuals, a info system

> Once you are through with Emacs tutorial, you should consult the Emacs Info manual as your primary documentation.